Cloud changelog - Jan 12th (#6112)
mattermost/docs: source/install/cloud-changelog.md

 - The import job now logs the progress of the import.
 - Added ``restore_group`` permission to the mmctl and to the **System Console > Permissions**.
 - Improved bulk export logging.
 - Compliance export job can now cancel the SQL query execution during server shutdown which will allow the job to exit faster.
 - Shared Channels (Experimental) was moved to Professional license.

### API Changes
 - Added new API endpoint ``GET /api/v4/posts/:post_id/info`` to allow checking if the post that a permalink is pointing to is accessible by joining teams or channels.
 - Added validity checks for role related parameters in ``GET /users``.
 - Added an allowed value ``sort=display_name`` to ``GET /api/v4/users?in_group=<groupid>``.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where batch notifications failed while rendering.
 - Fixed an issue where the unreads button in the channel sidebar was missing alternative text for screen readers.
 - Fixed an issue where there was no feedback that a downgrade was in progress when selecting **Downgrade** under **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.

>  - Fixed an issue where attempting to create a team with a duplicate URL printed the wrong error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where attempting to create a team with a duplicate URL displayed the wrong error.
```

 - Fixed an issue where threads with 0 replies would show in all threads.
 - Fixed an issue with the styling of date pickers.
 - Fixed an issue with fetching the latest user's profile picture in Insights.
 - Fixed an issue where ``--center-channel-text`` CSS variable was used instead of ``--center-channel-color``.
 - Fixed an issue where the screen reader timestamp announcement was too long.
 - Fixed an issue where upgrade emails were still sent when downgrading to the Cloud Starter plan.
 - Fixed an issue where profile pictures, usernames, and full names did not update instantly in Insights.
 - Fixed an issue where the metrics server restarted for every config change.
 - Prevented browsers and CDNs from caching remote entrypoint files.
 - Fixed a potential read-after-write issue when uploading data through the resumable uploads API.
 - Fixed the position of the Boards icon in the app bar when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed ability to create a board when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed Boards tour tips not appearing when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed the slash command description help text.

>  - Fixed an issue where clicking **Contact Sales** didn't prefill the reason of contacting sales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where selecting **Contact Sales** didn't pre-fill the reason for contacting sales.
```

 - Added a centralized Drafts view for draft messages.
 
#### Playbooks
 - Added an option to run playbooks without creating a new channel every time in order to reduce the unnecessary overhead.
 - In addition to the daily digest, users can now also view [a task inbox](https://docs.mattermost.com/playbooks/work-with-tasks.html#task-inbox) from the global header bar while in Playbooks.
 
#### Calls
 - [Audio calling and screen sharing](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/calls-deployment.html) in channels is now generally available to all Mattermost customers.
 - Updated [the keyboard shortcut](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/keyboard-shortcuts-for-channels.html#calls-shortcuts) to start and join calls.

#### ServiceNow Integration
 - ServiceNow customers can now access and share their ServiceNow data from within Mattermost.
 
#### ServiceNow Virtual Agent Integration
 - The [Mattermost ServiceNow Virtual Agent Integration](https://www.loom.com/share/36f60299c6c349729160d6d8bce75c3c) makes it easy for employees and customers to resolve issues fast.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Updated prepackaged version of plugins affected by React 17 upgrade.

>  - Updated the **Remove license and download** text in-product to clarify that server will be downgraded to Mattermost Free as a result.

Reviewer 2: This is only for self-hosted, not Cloud

- [Release 2023-01-12](#release-2023-01-12)
- [Release 2022-12-20](#release-2022-12-20)
- [Release 2022-12-01](#release-2022-12-01)
- [Release 2022-11-24](#release-2022-11-24)
- [Release 2022-11-17](#release-2022-11-17)
- [Release 2022-11-10](#release-2022-11-10)

## Release 2023-01-12

### Highlights

#### Message Priority and Acknowledgments
 - Added [message priority labels](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/message-priority.html) to the Threads view.
 - Added support for enterprise users to request acknowledgements on posts and to acknowledge posts (Professional).

#### Global Drafts
 - Added a centralized Drafts view for draft messages.
 
#### Playbooks
 - Added an option to run playbooks without creating a new channel every time in order to reduce the unnecessary overhead.
 - In addition to the daily digest, users can now also view [a task inbox](https://docs.mattermost.com/playbooks/work-with-tasks.html#task-inbox) from the global header bar while in Playbooks.
 
#### Calls
 - [Audio calling and screen sharing](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/calls-deployment.html) in channels is now generally available to all Mattermost customers.

>  - Updated [the keyboard shortcut](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/keyboard-shortcuts-for-channels.html#calls-shortcuts) to start and join calls.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this is the right place but an important change was made to calls participants limits. The Cloud free plan will now support up to 8 participants per call in either group message, public or private channels (it was previously DMs only).

Reviewer: Docs has captured this update via https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/6104 for the [Workspace Limits](https://docs.mattermost.com/onboard/mattermost-limits.html) product documentation page, and an extra mention in the changelog is a good idea for extra visibility.

 - Added ``acknowledgements`` field to the post's metadata.
 - Added the ability for customers to view their upcoming invoice on the **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.
 - **Total Activated Users** was changed back to **Total Active Users** on the **System Console > Reporting > Site Statistics** page.
 - The import job now logs the progress of the import.
 - Added ``restore_group`` permission to the mmctl and to the **System Console > Permissions**.
 - Improved bulk export logging.
 - Compliance export job can now cancel the SQL query execution during server shutdown which will allow the job to exit faster.
 - Shared Channels (Experimental) is now available with a Professional license.

>  - Boards is delivered as an official product vertical instead of a plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Boards is delivered as an official in-product vertical instead of a plugin.
```

Reviewer: Applied review feedback via @wuwinson

 - Fixed the position of the Boards icon in the app bar when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed ability to create a board when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed Boards tour tips not appearing when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed the slash command description help text.
 - Fixed an issue where selecting **Contact Sales** didn't pre-fill the reason for contacting sales.
 - Fixed an issue where the screen readers did not announce the selected state of the sidebar submenu items.
 - Fixed an issue where the metrics server was not prevented from starting while running export commands.
 - Fixed an issue where long group mentions and user mentions didn't wrap properly.
 - Fixed an issue with fetching first/last name for GitLab user using OpenID.
 - Fixed an issue where servers with an encrypted key did not throw an error during startup.
 - Fixed an issue where the **Test Connection** button in **System Console > Environment > Elasticsearch** did not correctly take the right config settings specified in the page. Earlier, it would always take the previously saved config.

### Known Issues

>  - The Playbooks left-hand sidebar does not update when a user is added to a run or playbook without a refresh.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - The Playbooks left-hand sidebar does not update when a user is added to a run or playbook without a refresh.
 - Publicly shared boards load to a "Team not found" error page. See [issue-focalboard-4450](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/4450) for more details.
```

 - The [template picker](https://docs.mattermost.com/boards/work-with-boards.html#choose-a-board-template) has been improved to make it easier for users to find the best template for their project.

#### ServiceNow Integration
 - ServiceNow customers can now access and share their ServiceNow data from within Mattermost.
 
#### ServiceNow Virtual Agent Integration
 - The [Mattermost ServiceNow Virtual Agent Integration](https://www.loom.com/share/36f60299c6c349729160d6d8bce75c3c) makes it easy for employees and customers to resolve issues fast.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Updated prepackaged version of plugins affected by React 17 upgrade.
 - Corrected in-product System Console legacy link to the Cloud Administrator's Guide.
 - Updated prepackaged NPS version to 1.3.1.
 - Updated prepackaged version of Apps plugin to 1.2.0.
 - Added group members count to the group autocomplete.
 - Clicking a group mention now displays group details and membership.
 - Improved the collapsed state of the post formatting toolbar.
 - App Framework - channel and user fields now support multiselect property, to allow users to select multiple values in the form.

>  - Increased the notification length on Windows to 120 from 50.

Author: Clarified the text - ticket: https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-48799.

 - Prioritized members of recently viewed DMs/GMs when adding users to a channel.
 - Updated in-product confirmation modal for ``@here`` mentions to clarify that people & timezone counts don't include the current user.
 - Added support for multiple users and channels to the ``/invite`` slash command.
 - Downgraded French language support to Beta.

#### Administration
 - The export file now contains the server version and a creation timestamp.

>  - Plugins with a webapp component may need to be updated to work with Mattermost and the updated ``React v17`` dependency. This is to avoid plugins crashing with an error about ``findDOMNode`` being called on an unmounted component. While our `starter template <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template>`_ depended on an external version of ``React``, it did not do the same for ``ReactDOM``. Plugins need to update their ``webpack.config.js`` directives to externalize ``ReactDOM``. For reference, see https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-playbooks/pull/1489. Server-side only plugins are unaffected. This change can be done for existing plugins any time prior to upgrading to Mattermost and is backwards compatible with older versions of Mattermost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Plugins with a webapp component may need to be updated to work with Mattermost and the updated React v17 dependency. This is to avoid plugins crashing with an error about ``findDOMNode`` being called on an unmounted component. While our `starter template <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template>`_ depended on an external version of ``React``, it did not do the same for ``ReactDOM``. Plugins need to update their ``webpack.config.js`` directives to externalize ``ReactDOM``. For reference, see https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-playbooks/pull/1489. Server-side only plugins are unaffected. This change can be done for existing plugins any time prior to upgrading Mattermost and is backwards compatible with older versions of Mattermost.
```

Reviewer: Would Cloud admins be concerned with compatibility with older versions of Mattermost?

 - Added ``acknowledgements`` field to the post's metadata.

>  - Added the ability for customers to view their upcoming invoice at the **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added the ability for customers to view their upcoming invoice on the **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.
```

>  - **Total Activated Users** was changed back to **Total Active Users** in **System Console > Reporting > Site Statistics**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Total Activated Users** was changed back to **Total Active Users** on the **System Console > Reporting > Site Statistics** page.
```

 - The import job now logs the progress of the import.

>  - Added ``restore_group`` permission to the mmctl and to the **System Console > Permissions**.

Reviewer: @amyblais - Can you point me to the PR for this update, please? I don't yet have this on my radar for docs updates. Thanks!

Author: PRs: https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/pull/21806 & https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp/pull/11760.

 - Improved bulk export logging.
 - Compliance export job can now cancel the SQL query execution during server shutdown which will allow the job to exit faster.

>  - Shared Channels (Experimental) was moved to Professional license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Shared Channels (Experimental) is now available with a Professional license.
```

>  - Boards will be served as an in-built product from within Mattermost server instead of a plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Boards is delivered as an official product vertical instead of a plugin.
```

Reviewer: @wuwinson - I'd appreciate your input on this phrasing update.

 - Added a new section in the **System Console** for products. For now, it only contains Boards-specific settings.

>  - Removed Cloud professional file storage limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Removed Cloud Professional file storage limits.
```

 - Fixed the position of the Boards icon in the app bar when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed ability to create a board when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed Boards tour tips not appearing when Boards is running without a plugin.
 - Fixed the slash command description help text.
 - Fixed an issue where selecting **Contact Sales** didn't pre-fill the reason for contacting sales.
 - Fixed an issue where the screen readers did not announce the selected state of the sidebar submenu items.
 - Fixed an issue where the metrics server was not prevented from starting while running export commands.
 - Fixed an issue where long group mentions and user mentions didn't wrap properly.
 - Fixed an issue with fetching first/last name for GitLab user using OpenID.
 - Fixed an issue where servers with an encrypted key did not throw an error during startup.
 - Fixed an issue where the **Test Connection** button in **System Console > Environment > Elasticsearch** did not correctly take the right config settings specified in the page. Earlier, it would always take the previously saved config.

### Known Issues

>  - Boards linked to a channel you're a member of don't automatically appear on your sidebar unless you're an explicit member of the board. As a workaround, you can access the board from the channel RHS, or by searching for the board via the board switcher (Ctrl/Cmd+K). Alternatively, you can ask the board admin to add you to the board as an explicit member. See the [issue-focalboard-4179](https://github.com/mattermost/focalboard/issues/4179) for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2023-01-12](#release-2023-01-12)
- [Release 2022-12-20](#release-2022-12-20)
- [Release 2022-12-01](#release-2022-12-01)
- [Release 2022-11-24](#release-2022-11-24)
- [Release 2022-11-17](#release-2022-11-17)
- [Release 2022-11-10](#release-2022-11-10)

## Release 2023-01-12

### Highlights

#### Calls
 - An important change was made to calls participants limits. The Cloud free plan now supports up to 8 participants per call in group messages, public, or private channels (it was previously direct messages only).
 - [Audio calling and screen sharing](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/calls-deployment.html) in channels is now generally available to all Mattermost customers.
 - Updated [the keyboard shortcut](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/keyboard-shortcuts-for-channels.html#calls-shortcuts) to start and join calls.

> #### Boards

Reviewer 5: With Boards being a product now in Cloud, that means it's now on permanently. Is that something we need to call out? I don't know if people had the ability to turn it off before

Author: Added a note.

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2022-12-15](#release-2022-12-15)
- [Release 2022-12-01](#release-2022-12-01)
- [Release 2022-11-24](#release-2022-11-24)
- [Release 2022-11-17](#release-2022-11-17)
- [Release 2022-11-10](#release-2022-11-10)
- [Release 2022-10-27](#release-2022-10-27)

## Release 2022-12-15

### Highlights

#### Message Priority and Acknowledgments
 - Added message priority labels to the Threads view.
 - Added support for enterprise users to request acknowledgements on posts and to acknowledge posts (Professional Plan).

#### Global Drafts
 - Added a centralized Drafts view for draft messages.

#### Annual Cloud Subscriptions
 - On the purchase modal, admins are now able to buy an annual cloud subscription for a user count that exceeds the current user count.

>  - The **System Console > Subscriptions** page now reflects if the plan is monthly or annual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page now reflects if the plan is monthly or annual.
```

 - Updated the **Remove license and download** text in-product to clarify that server will be downgraded to Mattermost Free as a result.
 - Updated the keyboard shortcut to start and join calls.

#### Administration
 - The export file now contains the server version and a creation timestamp.
 - Plugins with a webapp component may need to be updated to work with Mattermost and the updated ``React v17`` dependency. This is to avoid plugins crashing with an error about ``findDOMNode`` being called on an unmounted component. While our `starter template <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template>`_ depended on an external version of ``React``, it did not do the same for ``ReactDOM``. Plugins need to update their ``webpack.config.js`` directives to externalize ``ReactDOM``. For reference, see https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-playbooks/pull/1489. Server-side only plugins are unaffected. This change can be done for existing plugins any time prior to upgrading to Mattermost and is backwards compatible with older versions of Mattermost.
 - Added ``acknowledgements`` field to the post's metadata.

>  - Added the ability for customers to view their upcoming invoice at the **System Console > Subscriptions** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added the ability for customers to view their upcoming invoice at the **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.
```

### API Changes
 - Added new API endpoint ``GET /api/v4/posts/:post_id/info`` to allow checking if the post that a permalink is pointing to is accessible by joining teams or channels.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where batch notifications failed while rendering.

>  - Fixed an issue where the unreads button in the channel sidebar was missing the alt text for screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the unreads button in the channel sidebar was missing alternative text for screen readers.
```

>  - Fixed an issue where there was no feedback that a downgrade was in progress when clicking **Downgrade** under **System Console > Subscriptions** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where there was no feedback that a downgrade was in progress when selecting **Downgrade** under **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page.
```

 - Fixed an issue where attempting to create a team with a duplicate URL printed the wrong error.
 - Fixed an issue where the custom status modal did not close when navigating to the custom emoji page.
 - Fixed an issue where selections within a code block were not properly copied to clipboard.
 - Fixed an issue where threads with 0 replies would show in all threads.
 - Fixed an issue with the styling of date pickers.

>  - Fixed an issue with fetching the latest user's picture in Insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue with fetching the latest user's profile picture in Insights.
```

 - Fixed an issue where ``--center-channel-text`` CSS variable was used instead of ``--center-channel-color``.
 - Fixed an issue where the screen reader timestamp announcement was too long.
 - Fixed an issue where upgrade emails were still sent when downgrading to the Cloud Starter plan.

>  - Fixed an issue where avatars, usernames, and full names did not update instantly in Insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where profile pictures, usernames, and full names did not update instantly in Insights.
```

Latest Mattermost Cloud releases:

- [Release 2022-12-15](#release-2022-12-15)
- [Release 2022-12-01](#release-2022-12-01)
- [Release 2022-11-24](#release-2022-11-24)
- [Release 2022-11-17](#release-2022-11-17)
- [Release 2022-11-10](#release-2022-11-10)
- [Release 2022-10-27](#release-2022-10-27)

## Release 2022-12-15

### Highlights

#### Message Priority and Acknowledgments
 - Added [message priority labels](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/message-priority.html) to the Threads view.
 - Added support for enterprise users to request acknowledgements on posts and to acknowledge posts (Professional).

#### Global Drafts
 - Added a centralized Drafts view for draft messages.

#### Annual Cloud Subscriptions
 - On the purchase modal, admins are now able to buy an annual cloud subscription for a user count that exceeds the current user count.
 - The **System Console > Billing & Account > Subscriptions** page now reflects if the plan is monthly or annual.

>  - Added the ability to migrate from a monthly to an annual Cloud Professional plan.

Reviewer 6: @amyblais  annual cloud subscription has been put on hold due to other new packaging changes that affect Cloud Professional. We don't have a specific timeline yet on when it will be shipped - cc/ @johndavidlugtu
